 
 
1 
 
                   
 
IBPS Clerk Mains Memory Based Reasoning Section - 29 Nov 2025 Shift 1  
 
Directions (1-5): Read the given information carefully and answer the related questions: 
Six persons A, B, C, D, E and F sit in a row (equidistant from each other) where some persons face north 
and some persons face south. Number of persons facing south is more than the number of persons 
facing north.  They also like different colors i.e., green, yellow, red, black, white and pink. The 
information of persons and colors is not used in the same manner as given.  
A sits second from one of the extreme ends. One person sits between A and the one who likes green.  B 
is an immediate neighbor of the one who likes green.  C sits immediate left of B.  C does not like green.  
The one who likes yellow sits third to the left of the one who likes red. Two persons sit between D and 
the one who likes yellow. The one who likes black and the one who likes white, sits immediate left of 
each other. The one who sits second to the right of the one who likes white, face north. F does not like 
black. 
 
Q1. What is the position of B with respect to the one who likes red? 
(a) Fourth to the right 
(b) Second to the left 
(c) Immediate left 
(d) Second to the right 
(e) Immediate right 
 
Q2. Four of the following five are similar in a certain way and form a group. Who among the 
following is not related to the group? 
(a) C 
(b) E 
(c) The one who likes green 
(d) The one who likes pink 
(e) D 
 
Q3. Which of the following statement is correct? 
(a) F sits adjacent to the one who likes yellow 
(b) The one who likes pink face north 
(c) One person sits between E and D 
(d) All the statements are not correct 
(e) A sits immediate right of the one who likes black 
 
Q4. How many persons sit to the left of F? 
(a) None 
(b) One 
(c) Four  
(d) Three 
(e) Two 

 
 
2 
 
                   
 
 
Q5. Which of the following pair is correctly matched? 
(a) B - pink 
(b) C - red 
(c) A - black 
(d) D - white 
(e) C – green 
 
Directions (6-8): The question below consists of two statements numbered I and II given below 
it. You have to decide whether the data provided in the statement is sufficient to answer the 
question. 
 
Q6. Six persons A, B, C, D, E, F - sit around a circular shaped table facing inside, but not in same 
order as given. Who among the following sits immediate left of D? 
Statement I: Two persons sit between A and B. C sits immediate right of B. D does not sit adjacent to A 
and E.  
Statement II: One person sits between E and B. A sits third to the left of E. C sits second to the right of 
F but C does not sit adjacent to B.  
(a) Data given in both statements I and II together are sufficient to answer. 
(b) Data given in statement I alone is sufficient to answer. 
(c) Data given in either statement I or statement II alone is sufficient to answer.  
(d) Data given in both statements I and II even together are not sufficient to answer. 
(e) Data given in statement II alone is sufficient to answer. 
 
Q7. Six persons K, L, M, N, O, P – are designated in a company on different designations – AM, GM, 
AGM, SM, Manager and Executive. The designations are given in decreasing order of seniority 
such that AM is the seniormost designation and Executive is the junio r most designation. Who 
among the given person is designated as GM? 
Statement I: N is designated three persons senior to K. One person is designated between N and M. P is 
designated senior to O. 
Statement II: P is designated immediate junior to N. O is designated junior to SM. More than one person 
is designated between O and L.  
(a) Data given in both statements I and II together are sufficient to answer. 
(b) Data given in statement I alone is sufficient to answer. 
(c) Data given in either statement I or statement II alone is sufficient to answer.  
(d) Data given in both statements I and II even together are not sufficient to answer. 
(e) Data given in statement II alone is sufficient to answer. 
 
Q8. Six persons A, B, C, D, E, F – live on different floors of a six-floor building where ground floor 
is numbered as 1, just above it is 2 and so on till the topmost floor is numbered as 6. Who live s 
immediate below F’s floor? 
Statement I: C lives above floor 3. One floor gap is between C and E. B lives on even numbered floor 
below A. D and E do not live on adjacent floors.  
Statement II: B lives on odd numbered floor. Two persons live between B and D. C’s floor is immediately 
above D’s floor. E lives two floor above F.  
 
 
3 
 
                   
 
(a) Data given in both statements I and II together are sufficient to answer. 
(b) Data given in statement II alone is sufficient to answer. 
(c) Data given in either statement I or statement II alone is sufficient to answer.  
(d) Data given in both statements I and II even together are not sufficient to answer. 
(e) Data given in statement I alone is sufficient to answer. 
 
Q9. A is brother-in-law of B. B is son of C. D is husband of C. E is only daughter-in-law of D but E is 
not wife of A. F is aunt of E’s daughter G. H is son of F . Now, find how C is related to H’s cousin? 
(a) Mother 
(b) Father 
(c) Sister-in-law 
(d) Aunt 
(e) Grandmother 
 
Q10. Statement: An FMCG company A, has announced that from next month, it will introduce a weekly 
quality-check audit at all its packaging units due to a recent increase in customer complaints regarding 
damaged products. 
Inferences: 
I. Company A wants to ensure that damaged products do not reach customers. 
II. The complaints received by Company A were caused only by issues in packaging. 
III. Before this announcement, Company A did not have any weekly audit system. 
(a) Only inference I follows 
(b) Only inference II follows 
(c) Only inference III follows 
(d) Both I and III follow 
(e) None of the inferences follow 
 
Solutions 
 
Solutions (1-5): 
 
 
S1. Ans.(b) 
S2. Ans.(c) 
S3. Ans.(c) 
S4. Ans.(d) 
S5. Ans.(a) 

 
 
4 
 
                   
 
 
S6. Ans.(c) 
Sol. From I – F sits immediate left of D. 
 
From II – C sits immediate left of D. 
 
 
S7. Ans.(d) 
Sol. From both I and II even together – a definite answer can not be determined.  
Designations Persons Persons 
AM L M 
GM N L 
AGM P N 
SM M P 
Manager K O 
Executive O K 
 
S8. Ans.(b) 
Sol. From II – C lives immediate below F’s floor.  
Floors Persons 
6 E 
5 B 
4 F 
3 C 
2 D 
1 A 

 
 
5 
 
                   
 
 
S9. Ans.(e) 
Sol. H’s cousin is G; C is grandmother of G 
 
 
S10. Ans.(a) 
Sol. Only Inference I follows  because the company starting weekly quality audits due to increased 
complaints clearly indicates its intention to reduce damaged products reaching customers.  
Inference II does not follow  because the statement never says packaging is the only cause of 
complaints.  
Inference III also does not follow as the statement does not confirm that weekly audits never existed 
earlier; it only states they will be introduced from next month. 
 
