1     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
 
IBPS Clerk Prelims Previous Year Paper- 2023 
 
Directions (1-5): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given below: 
Eight persons A to H were born (but not necessarily in the same order) on two different dates i.e., 5 or 20 
in four different months viz. April, May, July and September.  
F was born just before H on odd date in the month having odd days. The numbers of persons were born 
after F is same as the numbers of persons were born before D. E was born just after G who was born two 
persons after A. C was born before B.  
 
Q1. The numbers of persons were born between G and H is same as the numbers of persons were 
before _____. 
(a) A 
(b) B 
(c) F 
(d) D 
(e) None of these  
 
Q2. In which month was E born? 
(a) April 
(b) May 
(c) July 
(d) September 
(e) Cannot be determined 
 
Q3. How many persons were born after A? 
(a) One 
(b) Three 
(c) Two 
(d) Four 
(e) Cannot be determined 
 
Q4. Who was born in the month of May? 
(a) A 
(b) C 
(c) D 
(d) G 
(e) H 

2     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q5. Which of the following statement is true? 
(a) A was born on the 20th. 
(b) D was born after B. 
(c) G was born in July. 
(d) H was born after D. 
(e) E was born on an odd date. 
 
Directions (6-7): In each question below some statements are given followed by two conclusions 
numbered I and II. You have to take the given statements to be true even if they seem to be at 
variance with commonly known facts. Read all the conclusions and then decide which of the given 
conclusions logically follows from the given statements, disregarding commonly known facts. Give 
answer- 
 
Q6. Statements:  
All animal are birds 
Only a few birds are mammal 
No mammal is carnival 
Conclusions:  
I. All birds can never be mammal 
II. Some birds are not carnival 
(a) If only conclusion I follows 
(b) If only conclusion II follows 
(c) If either conclusion I or II follows 
(d) If neither conclusion I nor II follows 
(e) If both conclusions I and II follow 
 
Q7. Statements:  
Only a few numbers are letter 
All symbols are letter 
No letter is ruin 
Conclusions:  
I. All symbols being ruin is a possibility 
II. Some numbers are not ruin 
(a) If only conclusion I follows 
(b) If only conclusion II follows 
(c) If either conclusion I or II follows 
(d) If neither conclusion I nor II follows 
(e) If both conclusions I and II follow 

3     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Directions (8-12): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given below: 
Eight persons – A, B, C, D, E, F, G and H sit around a circular table and all of them face towards the centre of 
the table but not necessarily in the same order. E sits second to the right of F. Only two persons sit between 
A and E. B faces G and sits second to the right of C. H doesn’t sit adjacent to A. 
 
Q8. How many persons sit between H and G when counts from the left of H? 
(a) Four 
(b) Two 
(c) One 
(d) Three 
(e) Five 
 
Q9. Which among the following statement is true? 
(a) H faces the one who sits immediate left of A 
(b) C sits adjacent to D 
(c) Three persons sit between B and G 
(d) H sits two persons away from A 
(e) None is true 
 
Q10. If all the persons sit in alphabetical order starts from A in clockwise direction, then the 
position of how many persons remains unchanged (excluding A)? 
(a) One 
(b) Two 
(c) None 
(d) Three 
(e) More than three 
 
Q11. What is the position of D with respect to F? 
(a) Fifth to the right 
(b) Sixth to the left 
(c) Third to the right 
(d) Second to the left 
(e) Immediate left 
 
Q12. Four of the following five are alike in certain way and thus forms a group, then who among 
the following doesn’t belong to that group? 
(a) A-C 
(b) B-G 
(c) D-E 
(d) H-F 
(e) B-A 

4     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Directions (13-15): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given 
below: 
A is the mother of D and B. G’s daughter is married with D. F is the brother-in-law of H. H and M are not 
siblings. M is the sister-in-law of B and vice versa. F is the only brother of G who is grandmother of K.  
 
Q13. Who is the grandfather of K? 
(a) A 
(b) B 
(c) H 
(d) M 
(e) D 
 
Q14. How is F related to M? 
(a) Father 
(b) Uncle 
(c) Grandfather 
(d) Brother-in-law 
(e) None of the above 
 
Q15. If C is the wife of K, then how D is related to C? 
(a) Father-in-law 
(b) Uncle 
(c) Grandfather 
(d) Brother-in-law 
(e) None of the above 
 
Directions (16-20): Study the following alphabet and symbol series carefully and answer the 
questions given below: 
 
 
Q16. Which among the following element is 6th to the right of the 11th element from the right end 
of the given series? 
(a) D 
(b) F 
(c) ϕ 
(d) L 
(e) α  
 
Q17. If all the symbols are eliminated from the given series, then which among the following is the 
8th letter from the left end? 
(a) U 
(b) T 
(c) O 
(d) I 
(e) P 

5     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q18. How many vowels are immediately preceded by a letter and immediately followed by a 
symbol in the given series? 
(a) Four 
(b) Two 
(c) One 
(d) Three 
(e) Five 
 
Q19. Four of the following five are alike in certain way in the given series and thus forms a group, 
then which among the following doesn’t belong to that group? 
(a) WE! 
(b) %&R 
(c) H βO 
(d) ∞®L 
(e) ASF 
 
Q20. How many symbols are to the right of 8th letter from the right end in the given series? 
(a) Five 
(b) Four 
(c) Three 
(d) Six 
(e) Seven 
 
Q21. How many such pairs of digits are there in the number ‘38172946’, each of which has as many 
digits between them in the number as they have in the number series (both forward and backward 
direction)? 
(a) One 
(b) Three 
(c) More than four 
(d) Two 
(e) Four 
 
Directions (22-26): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given 
below: 
Seven persons go to watch movie on different days from Monday to Sunday of the same week. 
At most one person goes before C. As many persons go before C as after E. Only two persons go between E 
and D. G goes two persons after A. More than two persons go between F and B. A doesn’t go after B. 
 
Q22. Who among the following person goes to watch movie on Thursday? 
(a) E 
(b) A 
(c) C 
(d) F 
(e) D 

6     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q23. How many persons go to watch movie between C and B? 
(a) Two 
(b) Five 
(c) Three 
(d) Four 
(e) Six 
 
Q24. On which among the following days does B go to watch movie? 
(a) Sunday 
(b) Tuesday 
(c) Saturday 
(d) Wednesday 
(e) Monday 
 
Q25. Which among the following statement is not true? 
(a) C goes to watch movie at least before three persons 
(b) Even number of persons go to watch movie between A and B 
(c) B goes to watch movie after F 
(d) F goes to watch movie on Monday 
(e) All are true 
 
Q26. If all the persons go to watch movie in alphabetical order from Monday to Sunday, then the 
position of how many persons changed?  
(a) One 
(b) Six 
(c) Three 
(d) Four 
(e) Five 
 
Q27. If we form a four-letter meaningful word by using the first, second, fourth and sixth letter from 
the left end of the word ‘FRANCHISE’, then which of the following will be the fourth letter of the 
meaningful word thus formed. If more than one meaningful word is formed mark Z as your answer. 
If no meaningful word is formed, mark X as your answer?  
(a) F 
(b) R 
(c) H 
(d) X 
(e) Z 

7     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Directions (28-30): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given 
below: 
Six persons are arranged according to their height in descending order. Q and P are taller than U. Only one 
person is shorter than T. R is taller than U but shorter than Q. Height of R is 154cm. Difference between 
height of R and P is 8cm. As many persons taller than P as shorter than U. S is shorter than U.  
 
Q28. Who among the following is the second shortest person? 
(a) Q 
(b) P 
(c) T 
(d) U 
(e) R 
 
Q29. How many persons are taller than U? 
(a) Three 
(b) Two 
(c) One 
(d) Four 
(e) None of these  
 
Q30. What may be the height of Q? 
(a) 146cm 
(b) 158cm 
(c) 150cm 
(d) 152cm 
(e) 151cm 
 
Directions (31-35): Study the following information carefully and answer the questions given 
below: 
In a certain code language: 
“Dream your special wish” is coded as “mr kt wc sg” 
“Your willing is dream” is coded as “lg ut wc kt” 
“Special dream is aim” is coded as “wc qk mr lg” 
“Think wise special willing” is coded as “yl ut mr pt” 
 
Q31. What is the code of “Wish”? 
(a) mr 
(b) sg 
(c) wc 
(d) kt 
(e) Either kt or wc 

8     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q32. The code “pt” is coded for? 
(a) Wise 
(b) Think 
(c) Special 
(d) Either think or wise 
(e) Either Wise or Special 
 
Q33. If “think twice” is coded as “dw yl” then how is “wise towards” coded? 
(a) pt lg 
(b) qk pt 
(c) pt vx 
(d) lg ut 
(e) Can’t be determined  
 
Q34. What is the code of “Dream wise”? 
(a) wc sg  
(b) pt wc 
(c) wc yl 
(d) Either pt wc or wc yl 
(e) None of these  
 
Q35. The code “mr qk” is coded for? 
(a) aim wise 
(b) think dream 
(c) willing is 
(d) wish dream 
(e) None of these  
 
Directions (36 - 40): In each of these questions a number series is given. In each series only one 
number is wrong. Find out the wrong number. 
 
Q36. 91, 164, 134, 207, 177, 245, 220 
(a) 164 
(b) 245 
(c) 207 
(d) 91 
(e) 220 
 
Q37. 1.5, 9, 51, 205, 616, 1233, 1234 
(a) 616 
(b) 51 
(c) 1.5 
(d) 1233 
(e) 9 

9     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q38. 1180, 600, 316, 172, 100, 64, 46 
(a) 316 
(b) 64 
(c) 172 
(d) 600 
(e) 46 
 
Q39. 15.5, 19, 23.5, 29, 35.5, 40, 51.5 
(a) 40 
(b) 15.5 
(c) 19 
(d) 23.5 
(e) 51.5 
 
Q40. 23, 347, 603, 799, 940, 1043, 1107 
(a) 23 
(b) 940 
(c) 347 
(d) 603 
(e) 1043 
 
Directions (41-45): The table given below shows total number of bikes manufactured by four (A, B, 
C and D) different companies in two different (2021 and 2022) years. Read the table carefully and 
answer the questions. 
 
 
Q41. Find the ratio of total bikes manufactured by A in 2021 to total bikes manufactured by B and C 
together in 2022. 
(a) 5 : 21 
(b) 6 : 31 
(c) 6 : 29 
(d) 6 : 41 
(e) 6 ; 35 
 
Q42. If 30% of total bikes manufactured by D in 2021 are brand X bikes and remaining are brand Y 
bikes, then find the difference between brand X and brand Y bikes manufactured by D in 2021. 
(a) 52 
(b) 65 
(c) 130 
(d) 78 
(e) 104 

10     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q43. If C sold each bike at Rs. 8000 in 2021 and at Rs. 9000 in 2022, then find total revenue (in Rs.) 
generated by C in both the given years. 
(a) 3990000 Rs. 
(b) 2160000 Rs. 
(c) 4620000 Rs. 
(d) 2210000 Rs. 
(e) 3290000 Rs. 
 
Q44. Total bike manufactured by C in 2021 and D in 2022 together is what percent of total bike 
manufactured by A and B together in 2021. 
(a) 200% 
(b) 260% 
(c) 140% 
(d) 160% 
(e) 120% 
 
Q45. If average number of bikes manufactured by C, D and E in 2021 is 290, then find total number 
of bikes manufactured by E in 2021. 
(a) 370 
(b) 270 
(c) 470 
(d) 310 
(e) 350 
 
Q46. The length of a rectangle is 12 cm and the side of a square is 14 cm less than the sum of the 
length and breadth of the rectangle. If the perimeter of the rectangle is 16 cm more than the 
perimeter of the square, then find the breadth of the rectangle. 
(a) 6 cm 
(b) 10 cm 
(c) 8 cm 
(d) 4 cm 
(e) 5 cm 
 
Q47. The average weight of a group of five people is 85 kg. If a new person joined the group and the 
average weight decreased by 5 kg, then find the weight of the new person. 
(a) 45 kg 
(b) 58 kg 
(c) 61 kg 
(d) 42 kg 
(e) 55 kg 

11     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q48. A alone can complete a work in 40 days. A and B together can complete one-fourth of the work 
in 3 days. If A started the work alone and, after 8 days, B joined, then find the number of days taken 
by A and B together to complete the remaining work. 
(a) 5.4 days 
(b) 4.8 days 
(c) 9.6 days 
(d) 8.1 days 
(e) 7.2 days 
 
Q49. ‘A’ started a business with an investment of Rs.8000 and after six months, ‘B’ joined with an 
investment of Rs. X. If at the end of the year, the profit share of ‘B’ is Rs.21000 out of a total profit of 
Rs.49000, then find the value of X.  
(a) 12000 
(b) 10000 
(c) 14000 
(d) 8000 
(e) 16000 
 
Q50. A shopkeeper marked an article 40% above its cost price and allowed a discount of 20%. Had 
he marked the article 50% above its cost price and allowed a discount of 12%, the selling price 
would have been Rs. 90 more than the earlier selling price. Find 130% of the cost price. 
(a) 495 
(b) 585 
(c) 675 
(d) 885 
(e) 395 
 
Q51. A boat covers 54 km distance in upstream in nine hours and the same boat covers 60 km 
distance in downstream in five hours. Find the ratio of speed of boat in still water to speed of stream. 
(a) 4 : 1 
(b) 3 : 2 
(c) 3 : 1 
(d) 1 : 3 
(e) 5 : 1 
 
Q52. ‘x’ years hence, the ratio of age of A to that of B will be 7 : 5. ‘x+4’ years hence the ratio of age 
of A to that of B will be 4 : 3. If present age of A is 26 years, then find the present age of B. 
(a) 21 years 
(b) 12 years 
(c) 15 years 
(d) 18 years 
(e) 19 years 

12     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q53. A man invested Rs. 4000 at rate of R% p.a. for three years on simple interest and he received 
Rs. 1800 as interest. If the man invested Rs. 5000 at rate of (R-5) % p.a. on compound interest for 
two years, then find the interest received by the man. 
(a) 750 Rs. 
(b) 2200 Rs. 
(c) 1612.5 Rs. 
(d) 1050 Rs. 
(e) 512.5 Rs. 
 
Q54. The ratio of the speeds of a train and a man is 6 : 1 respectively. The length of the train is 780 
m and crosses a pole in 1 minute 5 seconds. In how much time will the man cross the 240 m long 
platform? 
(a) 120 seconds 
(b) 60 seconds  
(c) 90 seconds 
(d) 180 seconds 
(e) 150 seconds 
 
Q55. In a vessel water is 40% of the milk. When 28 litres of mixture are taken out from the vessel 
and 10 litres of water is added in the remaining mixture, then quantity of water becomes 60% of 
the milk. Find the initial quantity of milk? 
(a) 70 litres 
(b) 21 litres 
(c) 14 litres  
(d) 35 litres  
(e) 49 litres  
 
Directions (56-70): What will come in place of (?) question mark in the following questions. 
 
Q56.  
(a) 516 
(b) 816 
(c) 616 
(d) 716 
(e) 916 
 
Q57.   
(a) 100 
(b) 300 
(c) 600 
(d) 150 
(e) 160 

13     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q58.  
(a) 35 
(b) 30 
(c) 48 
(d) 40 
(e) 50 
 
Q59.  
(a) 4 
(b) 3 
(c) 2 
(d) 5  
(e) 6 
 
Q60.  
(a) 95 
(b) 85 
(c) 105 
(d) 75 
(e) 65 
 
Q61.  
(a) 182.4 
(b) 184.4 
(c) 186.4 
(d) 188.4 
(e) 192.4 
 
Q62.  
(a) 78 
(b) 72 
(c) 84 
(d) 80 
(e) 79 
 
Q63.   
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  

14     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q64.  
(a) 895 
(b) 885 
(c) 865  
(d) 875 
(e) 855 
 
Q65.  
(a) 24 
(b) 12 
(c) 15 
(d) 22 
(e) 20 
 
Q66.  
(a) 21 
(b) 23 
(c) 39 
(d) 27 
(e) 29 
 
Q67.  
(a) 15 
(b) 30 
(c) 25 
(d) 35 
(e) 40 
 
Q68.  
(a) 110 
(b) 105 
(c) 100 
(d) 120 
(e) 125 
 
Q69.  
(a) 3 
(b) 4 
(c) 2 
(d) 1 
(e) 9 

15     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q70.  
(a) 1062 
(b) 1042 
(c) 1072 
(d) 1052 
(e) 1082 
 
Directions (71-79): Read the given passage and answer the following questions. Some parts have 
been highlighted to aid in answering the questions. 
Ato was a young man who lived in a small village in the mountains. The village had been suffering from an 
ancient salt deficiency for generations. The soil was so poor that it couldn't produce crops, and the people 
were forced to eat tasteless food. They were also weak and sickly, and many of them died young. 
The man was determined to find a way to help his people. He travelled far and wide, seeking out knowledge 
about salt and how to produce it. He met with wise men and scholars, and he studied ancient texts. He even 
travelled to distant lands, where he learned about the salt mines of other cultures. 
After many years, Ato finally returned to his village with the knowledge he had sought. He told the people 
of his village about salt and how it could help them. He also told them about the salt mines he had seen in 
other lands. 
The people were sceptical at first. They had never heard of salt before, and they didn't believe that it could 
help them. But the man was patient and persistent. He taught the people how to grow crops that required 
salt, and he showed them how to build a salt mine. 
It took many years, but eventually the people of the village were able to overcome their salt deficiency. 
They were able to grow healthy crops, and they were no longer weak and sickly. Ato was hailed as a hero, 
and he is still remembered today as the man who saved his village. 
 
Q71. What was the main problem faced by the village in the mountains? 
(a) Lack of water for irrigation, which led to poor crop yields and food scarcity. 
(b) Soil with excessive nutrients, causing imbalances in plant growth and quality. 
(c) Ancient salt deficiency that had plagued the village for generations, affecting both crops and health. 
(d) Overpopulation, putting a strain on available resources and causing malnutrition. 
(e) Excessive rainfall, leading to soil erosion and difficulty in cultivation. 
 
Q72. How did Ato attempt to solve the village's problem? 
(a) By building a dam for water supply to enhance agricultural productivity. 
(b) By importing crops from other villages to address food shortages. 
(c) By teaching the villagers to mine for gold as an alternative source of wealth. 
(d) By seeking knowledge about salt and its production to combat the salt deficiency issue. 
(e) By introducing advanced medical treatments to improve the villagers' health. 
 
Q73. How did the villagers initially react to Ato's knowledge about salt? 
(a) They were excited and immediately started implementing his ideas to alleviate their struggles. 
(b) They were sceptical and didn't believe salt could be a solution to their long-standing problem. 
(c) They welcomed him as a hero without any doubts, grateful for his efforts. 
(d) They ignored his advice and continued with their traditional practices, resistant to change. 
(e) They thought he was a magician and feared the potential consequences of his knowledge. 

16     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q74. What did Ato teach the villagers to do in order to improve their situation? 
(a) How to build better houses using local materials and techniques. 
(b) How to mine for precious stones to bring in additional income for the village. 
(c) How to grow crops that required salt, thus addressing the salt deficiency issue. 
(d) How to perform ancient rituals for good luck and improved agricultural outcomes. 
(e) How to raise livestock in the mountains to diversify their food sources. 
 
Q75. How did the village change after implementing Ato's knowledge? 
(a) The people became weaker and sicker due to the increased salt consumption. 
(b) The villagers started fighting over the salt resources, causing conflicts. 
(c) The village experienced a shortage of water, hampering agricultural activities. 
(d) The soil became more fertile, and crops grew well, leading to better health and food security. 
(e) The villagers decided to move to a different location to escape their salt-related issues. 
 
Q76. Why is Ato remembered in his village? 
(a) For introducing new religious practices that brought unity to the villagers. 
(b) For discovering a hidden treasure that greatly enriched the village. 
(c) For teaching them advanced medical treatments that improved their well-being. 
(d) For finding a way to address their salt deficiency, leading to improved living conditions. 
(e) For leading the village's defence against invaders and ensuring their safety. 
 
Q77. Choose the most appropriate synonym for the word “persistent” as is highlighted in the 
passage. 
(a) Temporary 
(b) Fleeting 
(c) Resolute 
(d) Uncertain 
(e) Random 
 
Q78. Which of the following words is most similar to the word “overcome” as it is used in the 
passage? 
(a) Surrender 
(b) Complicate 
(c) Maintain 
(d) Retreat 
(e) Conquer 
 
Q79. Choose the most appropriate antonym for the word “sceptical” as is highlighted in the passage. 
(a) Cautious 
(b) Trusting 
(c) Doubtful 
(d) Hesitant 
(e) Apprehensive 

17     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Directions (80-84): Rearrange the following sentences in the proper sequence to form a meaningful 
paragraph; then answer the questions given below them. 
(A) Embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, resilient, and harmonious world for 
current and future generations. 
(B) These goals, established by the United Nations, encompass a range of interconnected targets, from 
ending hunger and promoting health and education to fostering gender equality and clean energy access. 
(C) The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) serve as a comprehensive blueprint for global 
prosperity, focusing on eradicating poverty, protecting the planet, and ensuring a better future for all.  
(D) The SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges such as climate change, inequality, and social injustice, 
aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. 
(E) By uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective effort, the SDGs envision a world where 
economic growth is balanced with environmental conservation, social equity, and responsible 
consumption. 
 
Q80. Which of the following should be the third sentence after rearrangement? 
(a) D 
(b) A 
(c) B 
(d) E 
(e) C 
 
Q81. Which of the following should be the fourth sentence after rearrangement? 
(a) A 
(b) D 
(c) B 
(d) E 
(e) C 
 
Q82. Which of the following should be the second sentence after rearrangement? 
(a) C 
(b) E 
(c) D 
(d) A 
(e) B 
 
Q83. Which of the following should be the fifth sentence after rearrangement? 
(a) B 
(b) E 
(c) D 
(d) C 
(e) A 

18     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q84. Which of the following should be the first sentence after rearrangement? 
(a) C 
(b) A 
(c) E 
(d) B 
(e) D 
 
Directions (85-89): In each of the questions given below four words are given in bold. These four 
words may or may not be in their correct position. The sentence is then followed by options with 
the correct combination of words that should replace each other in order to make the sentence 
grammatically and contextually correct. Find the correct combination of the words that replace 
each other. If the sentence is correct as it is then select option (e) as your choice. 
 
Q85. A large house (A) of wire will be needed to run (B) the cable (C) line from one end of the spool (D) 
to the other. 
(a) A-D 
(b) A-D & B-C 
(c) B-C 
(d) A-C & B-D 
(e) No interchange required 
 
Q86. The GST Council needs (A) to meet (B) more often (C) and turn (D) its to-do list into a must-do list 
expeditiously. 
(a) A-C 
(b) C-D 
(c) A-D 
(d) B-D 
(e) No interchange required 
 
Q87. A grand (A) procession streets (B) through the rolled (C) of the festive (D) city. 
(a) A-C & B-D 
(b) B-C 
(c) A-D & B-C 
(d) A-D 
(e) No interchange required 
 
Q88. As the boy walked (A) into his favorite teacher’s classroom, he realized (B) that it was a class (C) to 
have his best friend in the same perk (D) with him. 
(a) A-C & B-D 
(b) B-C 
(c) A-B & C-D 
(d) C-D 
(e) no replacement required 

19     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q89. Unravelling (A) the fishing (B) line wrapped (C) tightly around the spool, the fisherman prepared 
(D) to cast his pole. 
(a) A-D 
(b) C-B 
(c) B-D  
(d) A-B  
(e) No interchange required 
 
Directions (90-90): Each of the following questions give a sentence which has been divided into four 
parts which might not be in their correct order of narrative. The sentence is then followed by five 
options, one of which gives the sequence of the rearranged parts to make the sentence meaningful. 
You must choose the option which gives the correct sequence of the parts. If the sentence is already 
arranged in the correct sequence or the correct sequence doesn't match with any of the given 
sequence, mark option (e). i.e., " No rearrangement required " as your answer. 
 
Q90. the leaves, plants release the (A)/ moved from the roots to (B)/ once water is (C)/ excess liquid 
in the form of vapor (D). 
(a) ADCB 
(b) CBAD 
(c) DBCA 
(d) BADC 
(e) No arrangement required 
 
Directions (91-95): In each question a part is omitted which is then replaced by a blank. Choose the 
word from the given options that will fit into the blank most appropriately.  
 
Q91. I was going out when the telephone__________________.  
(a) was ringing 
(b) rang 
(c) ringing 
(d) rings 
(e) had rang 
 
Q92. She used to _________________ after him wherever he went. 
(a) following 
(b) follow through 
(c) follow up 
(d) follow  
(e) followed 
 
Q93. The artist's unique style and creative vision _________________ a sense of wonder and awe among 
viewers. 
(a) evoked 
(b) suppressed 
(c) restricted 
(d) defied 
(e) weakened 

20     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q94. The musician's soulful performance and heartfelt lyrics _________________ a deep emotional 
connection with the audience. 
(a) severed 
(b) forged 
(c) ramify 
(d) disrupted 
(e) disenchanted 
 
Q95. The sudden economic downturn _________________ a wave of uncertainty among investors and 
business owners. 
(a) ignited 
(b) alleviated 
(c) fortified 
(d) depleted 
(e) fostered 
 
Directions (96-100): Read each sentence to find out whether there is any grammatical or idiomatic 
error in it. The error, if any, will be in one part of the sentence. The number of that part is the answer. 
If there is ‘No error’ , the answer is (e). (Ignore errors of punctuation, if any). 
 
Q96. In the pond, the (A)/ small guppy flapped (B)/ his tailfin back and forth (C)/ to swim next to 
the bigger fish.(D) 
(a) A  
(b) B 
(c) C  
(d) D 
(e) No Error 
 
Q97. Since the police has not (A)/ given a statement yet, the (B)/ reporter can only make a (C)/ 
conjecture about the crisis (D). 
(a) A 
(b) B 
(c) C 
(d) D 
(e) No Error 
 
Q98. An oculist is a (A)/ medical professional who (B)/ specializes in diseases associated (C)/ for 
the eyes (D). 
(a) A 
(b) B  
(c) C 
(d) D 
(e) No Error 

21     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
Q99. The investor sold all (A)/ of his stocks after having (B)/ a premonition about (C)/ the market 
crashes (D). 
(a) A 
(b) B 
(c) C 
(d) D 
(e) No Error 
 
Q100. If logical minds do not (A)/ prevail, a major war will (B)/ break out between the two (C)/ 
largest gangs in the city (D). 
(a) A 
(b) B 
(c) C 
(d) D 
(e) No Error 
 
Solutions 
 
S1. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S2. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S3. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 

22     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S4. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 
 
S5. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S6. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 
 
S7. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S8. Ans.(b) 
Sol. Final arrangement: 
 

23     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S9. Ans.(c) 
Sol. Final arrangement: 
 
 
S10. Ans.(a) 
Sol. Final arrangement: 
 
 
S11. Ans.(d) 
Sol. Final arrangement: 
 

24     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S12. Ans.(e) 
Sol. Final arrangement: 
 
 
S13. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S14. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S15. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 

25     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S16. Ans.(c) 
S17. Ans.(d) 
S18. Ans.(d) 
S19. Ans.(c) 
S20. Ans.(b) 
 
S21. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S22. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 
 
S23. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S24. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 

26     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S25. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S26. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S27. Ans.(d) 
 
S28. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S29. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S30. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S31. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 

27     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S32. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S33. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S34. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S35. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 

28     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S36. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S37. Ans.(e)  
Sol.  
 
 
S38. Ans.(d)  
Sol.  
 
 
S39. Ans.(a)  
Sol.  
 

29     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S40. Ans.(b)  
Sol.  
  
 
S41. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S42. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 
 
S43. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S44. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S45. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S46. Ans.(c)  
Sol.  
 

30     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S47. Ans.(e)  
Sol.  
 
 
S48. Ans.(c)  
Sol.  
 
 
S49. Ans.(a)  
Sol.  
 
 
S50. Ans.(b)  
Sol.  
 

31     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S51. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S52. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S53. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 

32     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S54. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
  
 
S55. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S56. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S57. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S58. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S59. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 

33     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S60. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S61. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S62. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S63. Ans.(d) 
Sol.  
 
 
S64. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S65. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 
 
S66. Ans.(e) 
Sol.  
 

34     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S67. Ans.(c) 
Sol.  
 
 
S68. Ans.(b) 
Sol.  
 
 
S69. Ans.(a)  
Sol.  
 
 
S70. Ans.(a) 
Sol.  
 
 
S71. Ans.(c) 
Sol. The correct answer is (c) “ Ancient salt deficiency that had plagued the village for generations, 
affecting both crops and health.”. The passage mentions that the village had been suffering from an 
ancient salt deficiency for generations, leading to poor soil and tasteless food. This deficiency affected both 
crop growth and the health of the villagers. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 
 
S72. Ans.(d) 
Sol. The correct answer is (d) “By seeking knowledge about salt and its production to combat the salt 
deficiency issue”. The passage states that Ato travelled far and wide seeking knowledge about salt and its 
production to help his people overcome the salt deficiency issue that had plagued them for generations. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 
 
S73. Ans.(b) 
Sol. The correct answer is (b) “They were sceptical and didn't believe salt could be a solution to their 
long-standing problem”. The passage mentions that the villagers were sceptical at first and didn't believe 
that salt could help them overcome their longstanding problems. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 

35     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S74. Ans.(c) 
Sol. The correct answer is (c) “How to grow crops that required salt, thus addressing the salt 
deficiency issue”. The passage states that Ato taught the villagers how to grow crops that required salt 
and how to build a salt mine, which were instrumental in improving their situation. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 
 
S75. Ans.(d) 
Sol. The correct answer is (d) “The soil became more fertile, and crops grew well, leading to better 
health and food security”. The passage mentions that the people were able to overcome their salt 
deficiency, grow healthy crops, and were no longer weak and sickly. This positive change resulted from 
implementing Ato's knowledge. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 
 
S76. Ans.(d) 
Sol. The correct answer is (d) “For finding a way to address their salt deficiency, leading to improved 
living conditions”. The passage concludes by stating that Ato was hailed as a hero and is still remembered 
as the man who saved his village by addressing the salt deficiency issue. His contribution had a lasting 
positive impact on the village's well-being. 
No other option answers the question as appropriately and completely. 
 
S77. Ans.(c) 
Sol. The correct answer is (c) “Resolute”. The word "persistent" in the passage describes Ato's 
determination to find a solution to his village's problem. He dedicated himself to this goal over a long period 
of time. "Resolute" captures this sense of unwavering determination and commitment. 
Relevance of incorrect answers: 
Option a ("Temporary") refers to something short-lived and does not convey the idea of determination. 
Option b ("Fleeting") suggests something passing quickly, which is contrary to the concept of persistence. 
Option d ("Uncertain") is not a synonym for "persistent"; it relates to doubt or lack of confidence. 
Option e ("Random") is unrelated to the concept of determination and doesn't provide a synonym for 
"persistent." 
 
S78. Ans.(e) 
Sol. The correct answer is (e) “Conquer”. The word "overcome" in the passage refers to the villagers' 
successful resolution of their salt deficiency problem. "Conquer" is the most similar word because it also 
implies successfully defeating or mastering a challenge, similar to overcoming an obstacle. 
Relevance of incorrect answers: 
Option a ("Surrender") is the opposite of "overcome"; it signifies giving up rather than succeeding. 
Option b ("Complicate") means to make more complex, which is not synonymous with successfully 
overcoming something. 
Option c ("Maintain") is not synonymous with "overcome"; it means to keep or preserve, not to conquer. 
Option d ("Retreat") is the opposite of overcoming; it implies withdrawing or giving in. 

36     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S79. Ans.(b) 
Sol. The correct answer is (b) “Trusting”. The word "sceptical" in the passage describes the initial attitude 
of the villagers towards Ato's claims about salt. They were hesitant to believe him. "Trusting" is the most 
suitable antonym, as it indicates a positive willingness to believe without doubt or suspicion. 
Relevance of incorrect answers: 
Option a ("Cautious") is not an antonym of "sceptical"; it suggests carefulness rather than doubt. 
Option c ("Doubtful") is synonymous with "sceptical" rather than its antonym. 
Option d ("Hesitant") is related to uncertainty and doesn't convey the opposite of scepticism. 
Option e (" Apprehensive") is not directly opposite in meaning to "sceptical"; it refers to anxious anticipation 
rather than doubt. 
 
S80. Ans.(a) 
Sol. Going through the given sentences it can be clearly seen that statement (C) will be the first sentence in 
the arrangement because it is independent and it tells us about the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) that serve as a comprehensive blueprint to ensure a better a future for all. Next, in the arrangement 
will be statement (B) which gives us information about the purpose of these 17 sustainable development 
goals. This will be then followed by statement (D) which tells that SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges 
and aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. Statement (D) will be then followed by 
statement (E) which further mentions that by uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective 
effort, the SDGs envision a world where economic growth is balanced. Finally, the paragraph will be 
concluded by statement (A) which states that embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, 
resilient, and harmonious world for current and future generations. So, the final arrangement would be 
CBDEA. 
 
S81. Ans.(d) 
Sol. Going through the given sentences it can be clearly seen that statement (C) will be the first sentence in 
the arrangement because it is independent and it tells us about the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) that serve as a comprehensive blueprint to ensure a better a future for all. Next, in the arrangement 
will be statement (B) which gives us information about the purpose of these 17 sustainable development 
goals. This will be then followed by statement (D) which tells that SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges 
and aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. Statement (D) will be then followed by 
statement (E) which further mentions that by uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective 
effort, the SDGs envision a world where economic growth is balanced. Finally, the paragraph will be 
concluded by statement (A) which states that embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, 
resilient, and harmonious world for current and future generations. So, the final arrangement would be 
CBDEA. 
 
S82. Ans.(e) 
Sol. Going through the given sentences it can be clearly seen that statement (C) will be the first sentence in 
the arrangement because it is independent and it tells us about the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) that serve as a comprehensive blueprint to ensure a better a future for all. Next, in the arrangement 
will be statement (B) which gives us information about the purpose of these 17 sustainable development 
goals. This will be then followed by statement (D) which tells that SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges 
and aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. Statement (D) will be then followed by 
statement (E) which further mentions that by uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective 
effort, the SDGs envision a world where economic growth is balanced. Finally, the paragraph will be 
concluded by statement (A) which states that embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, 
resilient, and harmonious world for current and future generations. So, the final arrangement would be 
CBDEA. 

37     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S83. Ans.(e) 
Sol. Going through the given sentences it can be clearly seen that statement (C) will be the first sentence in 
the arrangement because it is independent and it tells us about the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) that serve as a comprehensive blueprint to ensure a better a future for all. Next, in the arrangement 
will be statement (B) which gives us information about the purpose of these 17 sustainable development 
goals. This will be then followed by statement (D) which tells that SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges 
and aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. Statement (D) will be then followed by 
statement (E) which further mentions that by uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective 
effort, the SDGs envision a world where economic growth is balanced. Finally, the paragraph will be 
concluded by statement (A) which states that embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, 
resilient, and harmonious world for current and future generations. So, the final arrangement would be 
CBDEA. 
 
S84. Ans.(a) 
Sol. Going through the given sentences it can be clearly seen that statement (C) will be the first sentence in 
the arrangement because it is independent and it tells us about the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) that serve as a comprehensive blueprint to ensure a better a future for all. Next, in the arrangement 
will be statement (B) which gives us information about the purpose of these 17 sustainable development 
goals. This will be then followed by statement (D) which tells that SDGs strive to tackle pressing challenges 
and aiming to create inclusive and sustainable societies by 2030. Statement (D) will be then followed by 
statement (E) which further mentions that by uniting nations, organizations, and individuals in a collective 
effort, the SDGs envision a world where economic growth is balanced. Finally, the paragraph will be 
concluded by statement (A) which states that embracing these goals is essential to build a more equitable, 
resilient, and harmonious world for current and future generations. So, the final arrangement would be 
CBDEA. 
 
S85. Ans.(a) 
Sol. Among the highlighted words, “house” and “spool” are incorrectly placed. The correct combination of 
words that should replace each other in order to make the sentence grammatically and contextually correct 
is A-D. The word “house” should be replaced with “spool” as the given sentence is saying that a large spool 
of wire will be needed to run the cable line from one end of the house to the other.  
So, the correct sentence after rearrangement of words would be, “A large spool of wire will be needed to 
run the cable line from one end of the house to the other.” 
 
S86. Ans.(e) 
Sol. The sentence is contextually complete and grammatically correct. All the highlighted words are in their 
correct position, according to the context. Hence, no interchange required.  
 
S87. Ans.(b) 
Sol. Among the highlighted words, “streets” & “rolled” are incorrectly placed. The correct combination of 
words that should replace each other in order to make the sentence grammatically and contextually correct 
is B-C. The word “streets” should be replaced with “rolled” as the given sentence is saying that a grand 
procession rolled through the streets of the festive city. 
So, the correct sentence after rearrangement of words would be, “A grand procession rolled through the 
streets of the festive city.” 

38     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S88. Ans.(d) 
Sol. Among the highlighted words, “class” and “perk” are incorrectly placed. The correct combination of 
words that should replace each other in order to make the sentence grammatically and contextually correct 
is C-D. The word “class” should be replaced with “perk” as the given statement is saying that as the boy 
walked into his favorite teacher’s classroom, he realized that it was a perk to have his best friend in the 
same class with him.  
So, the correct sentence after rearrangement of words would be, “ As the boy walked into his favorite 
teacher’s classroom, he realized that it was a perk to have his best friend in the same class with him.” 
 
S89. Ans.(e) 
Sol. The sentence is contextually complete and grammatically correct. All the highlighted words are in their 
correct position, according to the context. Hence, no interchange required.  
 
S90. Ans.(b) 
Sol. The right answer choice is CBAD. The sentence thus arranged is, 
“Once water is moved from the roots to the leaves, plants release the excess liquid in the form of vapor.” 
No other rearrangement sequence results in a meaningful sentence. 
 
S91. Ans.(b) 
Sol. (a) was ringing: This option uses the past continuous tense ("was ringing"). It doesn't match the 
sequence of events described in the sentence. The sentence implies that the telephone rang while the 
speaker was in the process of going out, which makes the simple past tense a better fit. 
(b) rang: This option uses the simple past tense ("rang"). The simple past tense is suitable in this context 
because it indicates a completed action in the past. The sentence suggests that the telephone ringing 
happened at a specific moment while the speaker was in the process of going out. When we use the two 
tenses (past continuous + simple past) together, it shows us that the simple past action happened in the 
middle of the past continuous action, while it was in progress. 
Ex- While I was studying, I suddenly felt sleepy. 
(c) ringing: This option uses the present participle ("ringing"). Using the present participle in this context 
creates a tense mismatch. The event being described happened in the past, so the simple past tense is more 
appropriate. 
(d) rings: This option uses the simple present tense ("rings"). The use of the simple present tense would 
indicate a habitual or general action, which doesn't match the context of a specific event that happened in 
the past. 
(e) had rang: This option uses the past perfect tense ("had rang"). The past perfect tense is used to indicate 
an action that happened before another action in the past. In this case, there's no need to emphasize an 
action that happened before the telephone ringing, so the simple past tense is more appropriate. 
In conclusion, the correct answer is (b) "rang," as it accurately reflects the past event of the telephone 
ringing while the speaker was going out. 

39     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S92. Ans.(d) 
Sol. (a) following: This option uses the present participle ("following"). It doesn't match the past tense 
used in the sentence. The sentence describes a habitual action in the past, so the simple past tense is more 
appropriate but also with the infinitive(to) we need to use the base form of the verb. 
(b) follow through: This phrase means to complete or continue a task or action to its conclusion. However, 
it doesn't fit the context of someone physically trailing behind another person, which is what the sentence 
is describing. 
(c) follow up: This phrase means to pursue something further, often by taking additional actions or steps. 
Again, this doesn't fit the context of physically following someone wherever they go. 
(d) follow: This option uses the base form of the verb, which is the simple present tense ("follow"). While 
the context is in the past, the sentence describes a repeated or habitual action that happened in the past, 
the usage of ‘to’ requires the base form of the verb. Thus, it is the correct choice. 
(e) followed: This option uses the past tense ("followed"). Since the sentence talks about a past habitual 
action, "followed" should be the correct choice to indicate that she used to follow him wherever he went. 
But, the usage of ‘to’ needs the base form of the verb, hence, it is incorrect. 
In conclusion, the correct answer is (d) "follow," indicating the repeated action of physically following 
someone in the past. 
 
S93. Ans.(a) 
Sol. (a)evoked: It means to bring about or elicit a particular response or reaction. This word is the most 
appropriate choice for completing the sentence. It indicates that the artist's unique style and creative vision 
elicited or brought about a sense of wonder and awe among viewers. 
(b) suppressed: It means to prevent or restrain the expression or development of something. This word 
doesn't fit well in the given context. The sentence suggests that the artist's unique style and creative vision 
had a positive impact on viewers, rather than being suppressed or restrained. 
(c) restricted: It means to limit or confine within certain boundaries or limitations. This word doesn't 
accurately capture the intended meaning of the sentence. The sentence implies that the artist's unique style 
and creative vision had a positive and expansive effect on viewers, rather than being restricted. 
(d) defied: It means to resist or challenge the limits or expectations of something. This word doesn't fit 
well in the given context. The sentence suggests that the artist's unique style and creative vision instilled a 
sense of wonder and awe among viewers, rather than challenging or defying them. 
(e) weakened: It means to become or make something weaker or less effective. This word doesn't 
accurately convey the intended meaning of the sentence. The sentence implies that the artist's unique style 
and creative vision had a powerful and awe-inspiring effect on viewers, rather than weakening their 
response. 
Considering the context and the need to describe the impact of the artist's unique style and creative vision 
in evoking a sense of wonder and awe among viewers, the best choice to complete the sentence is option 
(a), "evoked." 

40     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S94. Ans.(b) 
Sol. (a)severed: It means to cut off or separate something. This word doesn't fit well in the given context. 
The sentence implies that the musician's performance and lyrics created a deep emotional connection with 
the audience, rather than cutting it off or separating it. 
(b) forged: It means to create or develop something strong and enduring. This word is the most 
appropriate choice for completing the sentence. It suggests that the musician's soulful performance and 
heartfelt lyrics created a deep emotional connection with the audience, implying that they formed a strong 
and lasting bond. 
(c) ramify: It means to split up into branches or constituent parts. This word doesn't accurately convey the 
intended meaning of the sentence. The sentence suggests that the musician's performance and lyrics had a 
positive impact, creating a deep emotional connection, rather than separating it. 
(d) disrupted: It means to interrupt or interfere with something, causing it to be disturbed or thrown into 
disorder. This word doesn't fit well in the given context. The sentence implies that the musician's 
performance and lyrics created a deep emotional connection with the audience, rather than causing 
disruption or disorder. 
(e) disenchanted: It means to lose one's enthusiasm or fondness for something. This word doesn't 
accurately capture the intended meaning of the sentence. The sentence suggests that the musician's soulful 
performance and heartfelt lyrics created a deep emotional connection with the audience, rather than 
causing them to lose interest or enthusiasm. 
Considering the context and the need to describe the impact of the musician's performance and lyrics on 
the audience, the best choice to complete the sentence is option (b), "forged." 
 
S95. Ans.(a) 
Sol. (a) ignited: This option means to spark or trigger something, often referring to starting a fire or 
initiating a process. In this context, the economic downturn is metaphorically being compared to a fire that 
triggers uncertainty. 
(b) alleviated: This option means to make something less severe or to provide relief. However, in this 
sentence, the economic downturn is causing uncertainty, so "alleviated" does not fit the context. 
(c) fortified: This option means to strengthen or reinforce. While the economic downturn might indeed 
have an impact on various aspects of the economy, "fortified" doesn't accurately describe the wave of 
uncertainty mentioned in the sentence. 
(d) depleted: This option means to reduce or use up the supply or resources of something. "Depleted" 
doesn't match the context of uncertainty; instead, it suggests a decrease in resources. 
(e) fostered: This option means to promote the development or growth of something. While economic 
downturns can have long-term effects on various aspects of the economy, "fostered" doesn't accurately 
convey the sudden and negative impact of uncertainty that is being described in the sentence. 
In conclusion, the correct answer is (a) "ignited," as it accurately describes the sudden and impactful 
nature of the economic downturn triggering a wave of uncertainty among investors and business owners. 
 
S96. Ans.(c) 
Sol. Part (C) has a grammatical error. The correct form is "its tailfin" instead of "his tailfin." 
In this context, "guppy" is a singular noun of indeterminate gender, and it is more appropriate to use the 
pronoun "its" to refer to the guppy's tailfin. The pronoun "his" is used to refer to a male subject. 
Therefore, the correct form should be "its tailfin" instead of "his tailfin." To make the sentence 
grammatically correct, the word “his” should be replaced with “its”.  
The other parts of the sentence are grammatically correct. 
Therefore, the correct sentence would be: “In the pond, the small guppy flapped its tailfin back and forth 
to swim next to the bigger fish.” 

41     www.sscadda.com            |            www.bankersadda.com            |            www.adda247.com 
 
 
S97. Ans.(a) 
Sol. The error in Part (A) is the use of "has" instead of "have" to agree with the subject "police." 
"Police" is a plural noun, and therefore requires the plural form of the verb "have" instead of the singular 
form "has." To make the sentence grammatically correct, the word “has” should be replaced with “have”.  
The other parts of the sentence are grammatically correct. 
Therefore, the correct sentence would be: “Since the police have not given a statement yet, the reporter can 
only make a conjecture about the crisis.” 
 
S98. Ans.(d) 
Sol. Part (D) has a grammatical error. The correct form is "associated with the eyes" instead of "associated 
for the eyes." The preposition "with" is used to indicate association or connection. To make the sentence 
grammatically correct, the word “for” should be replaced with “with”.  
The other parts of the sentence are grammatically correct. 
Therefore, the correct sentence would be: “ An oculist is a medical professional who specializes in diseases 
associated with the eyes.” 
 
S99. Ans.(d) 
Sol. Part (D) has a grammatical error. The correct form is "the market crashing" instead of "the market 
crashes." The phrase "the market crashing" is used to indicate an ongoing or continuous action, whereas 
"the market crashes" would imply a specific event. To make the sentence grammatically correct, the word 
“crashes” should be replaced with “crashing”.  
The other parts of the sentence are grammatically correct. 
Therefore, the correct sentence would be: “The investor sold all of his stocks after having a premonition 
about the market crashing.” 
 
S100. Ans.(e) 
Sol. The sentence is grammatically and contextually correct as it stands. Hence, there are no errors in it. 
 
 
 
